# EDA-on-OYO-booking-analysis-using-Python

Summary

Hotel Business is dependent on the customer traffic they get daily or on occasion. The apex point of this case study is to analyze the data of 2 types of hotels and give complete insights into their past, and current business. Also to provide some envisages that aid their business to grow in the upward direction. We are a team of three – Luv Mutreja, Jivan Jadhao, and Hitesh Kumar Khurana. We present here our exploratory data analysis, visualizations, interactive plots, animations, and lots of other interesting insights into the Hotel Booking data. We began by examining the raw data and performing the necessary cleaning of the dataset. then determine which features provide the most insight into price prediction and remove those that only serve to add noise. Data visualization and exploratory data analysis were performed on the tidied dataset to inform our modeling. We have tried to get an outlook of the following problem statement using data analytic techniques.  Analysis based on the number of bookings.  Analysis based on the types of people who book the hotels.  Analysis based on price distribution.  Analysis based on the type of stay.  Analysis based on their arriving and checking out time. As a team, we invested a lot of time in discussing and brainstorming ideas - from selecting the dataset to compiling the final version of this report. All of us had a deep sense of teamwork and communicated well with each other. We were successful in acknowledging and appreciating each other’s efforts while at the same time correcting each other along the way. The work was divided such that each of us worked on equally challenging tasks. From EDA, we found that May, October, June, and April got the highest traffic of Customers. The highest number of bookings was in the year 2016. The busiest month for the last 2 years (i.e. for the years 2016 and 2017) was the 5th month which is the month of May. Hotels generally got 96.8% new customers and they retained 3.2%, loyal customers. The Hotels should work on, ‘How to lower the booking cancellation ratio?’. We can suggest to the Hotel Owner to work on their Full Board meals so that the customers having long duration stays (i.e. 14+ nights) should order for The Full Boarded (i.e. FB ).

Conclusion By conducting eda(exploratory data analysis) on the given dataset we were able to understand the work a data scientist or a data analyst is supposed to do. We got hands-on experience of how to deal with large amounts of data and generate insights on the same. This project enabled us to experiment with the data and generate different problems. Further, we were able to get solutions to the problems using data visualization tools, and these solutions gave us the insights we needed.
Furthermore, a noteworthy observation was made regarding the comparison between resort and city hotels. The data suggested that resort hotels tend to be more affordable than city hotels, providing a competitive advantage in attracting cost-conscious customers. This insight opens avenues for marketing campaigns emphasizing affordability, potentially increasing bookings for resort properties.

In conclusion, the EDA on the hotel booking dataset offered valuable insights for strategic decision-making. The temporal analysis, revenue source identification, and observations regarding booking cancellations and hotel types provide a comprehensive understanding of the business landscape. Moving forward, the hotel management can leverage these insights to refine marketing strategies, enhance customer experiences, and optimize revenue generation. The exploration undertaken in this analysis is a foundation for data-driven decision-making, positioning the hotel business for continued success and growth.
